We thank all reviewers for their detailed and constructive feedback. We are glad that the Gauntlet benchmark and the goal of explicitly reasoning about exploitability and robustness were found useful and impactful. The main concerns center on (i) ambiguity in the PRPO objective and gradients, (ii) inconsistent Leduc Poker results, (iii) underspecified evaluation metrics and (iv) overexaggerated claims. We address each in turn and will incorporate the proposed clarifications in a revised version.

1.Clarification on the Gradient of Exploitability We thank the reviewer for identifying the ambiguity regarding the gradient of exploitability, ∇θE(πθ). We acknowledge that differentiating directly through a Best Response oracle is generally intractable. To clarify, PRPO does not differentiate through the Best Response oracle, as Reviewer m9uq correctly notes this is intractable. Instead, PRPO utilizes a Proxy-Gradient Anchoring mechanism. The explicit exploitability term in the objective acts as a dynamic selection signal, not a direct optimization target. It identifies the 'robust anchor' (the least exploitable policy in the population). The actual gradient update flows through the Nash regularization term (LNASH), which minimizes KL-divergence toward this anchor. We will revise Section 4.1 to formally define this bi-level optimization: minimizing exploitability via population selection, and minimizing divergence via gradient descent.

a. Metric-Based Selection: The oracle is used to compute the scalar exploitability E(πᵢ) for all agents. This non-differentiable metric is used only to identify the “robust anchor” — the policy π_best with the lowest exploitability in the population.

b. Gradient Injection: The gradient is injected through the Target Regularization term: L_target = λ · D_KL(π_best ∥ πθ). Thus, the exploitability metric acts as a selector for the gradient target, rather than being directly involved in the derivative. In the original notation, we unintentionally conflated the source of the selection signal (exploitability) with the source of the gradient (the KL term). We will revise Section 4.1 to explicitly define this bi-level relationship and eliminate any implication that the oracle itself is differentiated through.

2.Corrected Leduc Poker Implementation and Updated Results (Reviewers m9uq, bhs2) Both reviewers correctly noted that the originally reported Leduc Poker (LP) results contradicted our central claims. Our investigation revealed that the poor performance was caused by a hyperparameter misalignment in which the Target Policy regularization was effectively disabled (λ_target ≈ 0). As a result, the optimization depended entirely on the scalar exploitability penalty, which—as Reviewer m9uq correctly pointed out—does not provide a tractable gradient signal on its own. We corrected the implementation to strictly enforce the Proxy-Gradient Anchoring mechanism described earlier: a. Robust Anchoring: At each update, we use the Best Response (BR) oracle to identify the least exploitable agent in the population (“King-of-the-Hill”) and set this agent as π_target. b. Gradient Injection: We enabled the KL divergence term KL(π_target ∥ πθ) with λ_target = 1.0. This converts the non-differentiable exploitability metric (used only for selection) into a stable gradient signal (via the anchor). c. Oracle Precision: We increased the BR oracle budget from 80 hands to 250 hands to ensure more accurate “King-of-the-Hill” selection. We re-ran the LP comparison (3 seeds, matched time budgets). The new mean exploitability results (mbb/h) are: Standard PPO: 7031.96 ± 742.34 PSRO: 5504.06 ± 556.25 Self-Play: 4217.42 ± 924.20 PRPO (Corrected): 3903.66 ± 40.59

Note on the Baseline Discrepancy: The Self-Play result here (4217) is higher than the asymptotic result reported in the original paper (1798). The original paper allowed Self-Play to run to convergence (taking significantly longer). The results above utilize a standardized time budget. This demonstrates that under practical constraints, PRPO achieves superior performance and significantly higher stability (± 40 vs ± 924), avoiding the cycling issues common in Self-Play.

3.Gauntlet robustness score and normalization (Reviewers m9uq, Kvu4). We appreciate the concern that the Gauntlet score appears to be a vaguely defined weighted sum of heterogeneous components. In the implementation, the weights are:

overall_wr: 0.25 min_wr: 0.15 low_exploitability: 0.12 low_regret: 0.12 adaptation_rate: 0.10 plasticity: 0.08 forward_transfer: 0.08 low_forgetting: 0.05 population_diversity: 0.05

4.Scope and generalization claims (Reviewers bhs2, Kvu4). We agree that some of our language suggested larger claims than our experiments support. Our experiments use standard two-player games (matrix games and small poker variants). While Gauntlet is designed to scale, we did not include large-scale MARL domains due to space and compute constraints. In a revision, we will tone down generalization claims, clearly label the current domains as proof-of-concept, and frame cross-population evaluation as a first step rather than a complete solution.

We hope these clarifications, along with the corrected Leduc results and explicit description of the PRPO loss and gradients, resolve the main technical and empirical concerns while preserving what reviewers found most valuable: a principled, game-theoretic lens on MARL robustness and a benchmark that unifies exploitability-based evaluation across games.